---
layout: job
category: Co-op Jobs

title: Software Developer and Quality Inspection Intern
company: Sytek Enterprises (North Vancouver, Canada)

start_date: May, 2017
end_date: Aug, 2017
duration: 4 months

feature_img: /assets/feature-img/sytek_left.png
feature_from_left: true
feature_img_tablet: /assets/feature-img/sytek_top.png
feature_from_top: true

home_color: '#01a97b'
home_color_dark: '#097054'
---

***

### Summary
* Developed the electrical hardware and the software (apps) for Sytek’s demonstration units which were used to demonstrate and promote the capabilities of their force sensors to potential customers.
* The demonstration units used a Raspberry Pi running Raspbian (Debian based Linux OS).
* Wrote intuitive and compelling apps in C, C++ and Java that run smoothly on the limited hardware of the Raspberry Pi.
* Developed a robust wireless updating system that has allowed Sytek to update the software on their demonstration units in the field remotely, quickly and reliably.
* Manually tested hundreds of force sensors using a LabView program and a force application device to make sure that the sensors have the required force to electrical resistance curve.
* Created and maintained detailed documentation to help anyone who might need to work on the demonstration boxes after my coop work term at Sytek was finished.

***

### About the Company
Sytek Enterprises has been a major producer of custom graphical overlays, printed electronics and membrane switches since it was established in 1982. Sytek provides production consultation, design solutions and prototypes to help their clients all over the world develop optimal products and solutions for their business. Recently, Sytek has also expanded to become a prominent global manufacturer of resistive and capacitive force sensing technologies.

### The Demo Box
In May of 2017, Sytek was in the process of developing a demonstration device (demo box) to demonstrate the capabilities of their resistive force sensors to potential customers at meetings or trade shows. The basic design of the electronics and the enclosure had already been developed by one of the previous coop students that worked at Sytek. The existing design of the demo box included a custom PCB with ATMEGA328 (Arduino), custom injection moulded enclosure, Raspberry Pi 3 Model B, and a 7” Raspberry Pi touch screen. 

{% include content-img.html num="1" url="/assets/content-img/sytek/demo-box-internals.jpg" caption="Inside the demo box" %}

### Electrical Hardware of the Demo Box
When I started at Sytek, there were many problems with the demo box such as inconsistent power supply from the battery, unpredictable overheating of the battery management circuit, low current supply to the Raspberry Pi and the touch screen, etc. So, I was tasked by my supervisor to work on finding the reason for these electrical issues and try to correct them without needing to get new PCBs made (because of the high cost of getting PCBs manufactured). Within 3 weeks, I was able to identify the causes of the electrical issues and was able to minimize the effects of these issues by making extensive modifications to the PCBs. I continued to work on improving the stability of the electronics for the demo box throughout my work term and was able to eliminate most of its issues.

{% include content-img.html num="2" url="/assets/content-img/sytek/pcb-modifications.jpg" caption="Some of the modifications made to the PCB" %}

### Demo Box Apps
After spending 1 month on troubleshooting the electrical hardware, my supervisor decided that the demo box was sufficiently stable and tasked me with overhauling the software applications on the demo box. The demo box already had basic [Processing 3](https://processing.org/) applications written in Java which had been used as a placeholder for checking the functionality of the demo box. However, the existing applications had a few performance and usability issues such as bugs, unresponsiveness, lag, etc. So, within a week I quickly became familiar with the Linux environment on the Raspberry Pi and tried to get an understanding of the work that had already been done on the apps. In the end, I decided to take a chance and create the applications from scratch and make all the elements of the apps from the ground up in order to improve performance. Based on the directions of my supervisor, I was able to create all the required applications (in Processing 3) that ran smoothly and efficiently on the Raspberry Pi and had an intuitive and appealing GUI.

While working on the demo box apps, I became very comfortable in creating Linux shell scripts and using them to automate and manage various tasks on the Raspberry Pi. I even took the time to create a tool called the Linux File Uploader, which allowed me to wirelessly send files from my Windows desktop (which I was using to develop the apps) to the Raspberry Pi using the SCP protocol. Linux File Uploader is a .NET program written in C# and was instrumental in reducing the development time for the demo box apps by almost 5 times. 

{% include content-img.html num="3" url="/assets/content-img/sytek/linux-file-uploader.jpg" caption="Linux File Uploader interface" %}

Without Linux File Uploader, I would have had to move the build files from the desktop to a USB, put the USB into the demo box, place the files correctly in the Raspberry Pi file system, and run all the required scripts manually in order to test if the changes I made to the apps were working correctly or not.

### App Update Mechanism
Once the design and functionality of the various apps on the demo box was finalized, my supervisor challenged me to think of a fool-proof way to update the apps on any demo box even when we don't have access to it. The easiest way to do this would have been to send the update files to the demo box user and ask them to manually add the files in the correct location and use the Linux terminal on the device to run the required bash scripts. But, the demo box was intended to be used by Sytek representatives at various trade shows or meetings around the world who were likely to have limited technical knowledge about the working of the demo box itself. 

So, I decided to challenge myself and created a wireless update system from scratch which allows the user of an internet connected demo box to check for any new updates, download any available updates and install the update. The update system works as follows:
* Package the update files as a .zip file
* Upload the file to Dropbox. The file has a specific name and location so that the link for downloading the file doesn't change even when a new .zip file is uploaded
* When the user presses the update button, the demo box can check the version number of the update (contained in a separate .txt file on Dropbox) and allow the user to download the update if a newer version than the version currently installed on that demo box is available
* The file is then downloaded in the background (using `wget`), unzipped and placed in the proper location in the Raspberry Pi

The update system allows the developer to write their own custom bash scripts for each distinct stage of the update process (such as download, unzip, install, clean up, etc.). This provides great control and power to the developer and allows them to customize the update procedure without requiring them to change the underlying update system. In fact, I was even able to use this update system to change system files and install an on-screen keyboard on demo boxes that had already been sent out to representatives around the world.

### Other Responsibilities
Besides working on the demo box, I was also required to manually test 100s of force sensors using a linear force application machine and collect the data using a DAC and LabView. Throughout my work term, I made various significant usability improvements to the LabView program used for collecting force sensor data. However, once collected, the data had to be manually compiled together in a single Excel file with specific formatting requirements. So, over the course of a few hours I also developed a VBA Macro in Excel to automatically gather data from the .csv files for each sensor, format it properly within the Excel file and generate all the data and charts needed for verifying the quality of the force sensors.